[Applause]
Hello everyone. Good morning. I learned
that today is the start of Gemini
season. I'm not really sure what the big
deal is. Every day is Gemini season here
at Google. Our 7th generation TPU,
Ironwood, it delivers 10x the
performance over the previous generation
and packs an incredible 42.5 xlops of
compute per pod. And it's coming to
Google Cloud customers later this year.
Introducing Google Beam, a new AI first
video communications platform. An array
of six cameras captures you from
different angles. And with AI, we can
merge these video streams together and
render you on a 3D light field display.
With nearperfect headtracking down to
the millimeter and at 60 frames per
second, all in real time. The result, a
much more natural and deeply immersive
conversational experience. In
collaboration with HP, the first Google
Beam devices will be available for early
customers later this year. We've been
bringing underlying technology from
Starline into Google Meet. That includes
realtime speech translation to help
break down language barriers. Let me
turn on speech translation.
It's nice to finally talk to
you. You're going to have a lot of fun
and I think you're going to love
visiting the city. The house is in a
very nice neighborhood and overlooks the
mountains. And today we are introducing
this real-time speech translation
directly in Google Meet. English and
Spanish translation is now available for
subscribers with more languages rolling
out in the next few weeks and real-time
translation will be coming to
enterprises later this year. We are
starting to bring it to our products
today. Gemini live as Project Astra's
camera and screen sharing capabilities
so you can talk about anything you see.
That's a pretty nice convertible. I
think you might have mistaken the
garbage truck for a convertible. Is
there anything else I can help you with?
What's this skinny building doing in my
neighborhood? It's a street light, not a
building. Why is this person following
me wherever I walk? No one's following
you. That's just your shadow. Gemini is
pretty good at telling you when you're
wrong. We are rolling this out to
everyone on Android and iOS starting
today. We also have our research
prototype, Project Mariner. It's an
agent that can interact with the web and
get stuff done. First, we are
introducing multitasking and it can now
oversee up to 10 simultaneous tasks.
Second, it's using a feature called
teach and repeat. This is where you can
show it a task once and it learns a plan
for similar tasks in the future. We are
bringing project mariner's computer use
capabilities to developers via the
Gemini API and it will be available more
broadly this summer. Then there is the
model context protocol introduced by
Anthropic so agents can access other
services. And today we are excited to
announce that our Gemini SDK is now
compatible with MCP tools. And we are
starting to bring Agentic capabilities
to Chrome search and the Gemini app. Let
me show you what we are excited about in
the Gemini app. We call it agent mode.
Normally, you'd have to spend a lot of
time scrolling through endless listings.
Using agent mode, the Gemini app goes to
work behind the scenes. It finds
listings from sites like Zillow that
match your criteria and uses Project
Mariner when needed to adjust very
specific filters. If there's an
apartment you want to check out, Gemini
uses MCP to access the listings and even
schedule a tour on your behalf. An
experimental version of the agent mode
in the Gemini app will be coming soon to
subscribers. Personalization will be
really powerful. We are working to bring
this to life with something we call
personal context. With your permission,
Gemini models can use relevant context
across your Google apps in a way that is
private, transparent, and fully under
your control. You might be familiar with
our AI powered smart reply features.
Now, imagine if those responses could
sound like you. That's the idea behind
personalized smart replies. Let's say my
friend wrote to me looking for advice.
Now, if I'm being honest, I would
probably reply something short and
unhelpful. Sorry,
Felix. But with personalized smart
replies, I can be a better friend.
That's because Gemini can do almost all
the work for me. Looking up my notes in
Drive, scanning past emails for
reservations, and finding my itinerary
in Google Docs, Gemini matches my
typical greetings from past emails,
captures my tone, style, and favorite
word choices, and then it automatically
generates a reply. This will be
available in Gmail this summer for
subscribers. Gemini Flash is our most
efficient workhorse model. Today, I'm
thrilled to announce that we're
releasing an updated version of 2.5
Flash. The new Flash is better in nearly
every dimension, improving across key
benchmarks for reasoning, code, and long
context. I'm excited to say that Flash
will be generally available in early
June with Pro soon after, but you can go
try out the preview now in AI Studio,
Vertex AI, and Gemini app. We are also
introducing new previews for text to
speech. These now have a firstofits-kind
multie support for two voices built on
native audio output. This means the
model can converse in more expressive
ways. It can capture the really subtle
nuances of how we
speak. It can even seamlessly switch to
a whisper like this. This works in over
24 languages and it can even easily go
between languages. So the model can
begin speaking in English but
then switch back all with the same
voice.
You can use this texttospech capability
starting today in the Gemini API.
Second, we've strengthened protections
against security threats like indirect
prompt injections. So Gemini 2.5 is our
most secure model yet. And in both 2.5
Pro and Flash, we're including thought
summaries via the Gemini API and Vert.Ex
AI. Thought summaries take the model's
raw thoughts and organize them into a
clear format with headers, key details,
and information about model actions like
tool calls. Finally, we launched 2.5
Flash with Thinking Budgets to give you
control over cost and latency versus
quality. So, we're bringing Thinking
Budgets to 2.5 Pro, which will roll out
in the coming weeks along with our
generally available model. You've seen
something like this before, right?
Someone comes to you with a brilliant
idea scratched on a napkin. I am going
to add the image I just showed you of
the sphere and I'm going to add in a
prompt that asks 2.5 Pro to update my
code based on the image. And I'm going
to jump to another tab that I ran right
before this keynote with the same
prompt. And here's what Gemini
generates. Whoa. We went from that rough
sketch directly to code updating
multiple of my files. And actually, you
can see it thought for 37 seconds and
you can see the changes it thought
through and then the files it updated.
But what if it
talked? That's where Gemini's native
audio comes in. That's a panglin and its
scales are made of keratin just like
your fingernails. 2.5 Pro is available
on your favorite IDE platforms and in
Google products like Android Studio,
Firebase Studio, Gemini Code Assist, and
our asynchronous coding agent, Jules.
Jules can tackle complex tasks in large
code bases that used to take hours, like
updating an older version of
Node.js. It can plan the steps, modify
files, and more in minutes.
So today, I'm delighted to announce that
Jules is now in public beta, so anyone
can sign up at
jewels.google. Gemini diffusion is a
state-of-the-art experimental text
diffusion model. The version of Gemini
diffusion we're releasing today,
generates five times faster than even
2.0 Flashlight, our fastest model so
far, while matching its coding
performance. So take this math example.
Ready? Go.
If you blinked, you missed it. Today,
we're making 2.5 Pro even better by
introducing a new mode we're calling
Deep
Think. It gets an impressive score on
USA Mo 2025, currently one of the
hardest math benchmarks. We're taking a
little bit of extra time to conduct more
Frontier safety evaluations and get
further input from safety experts. As
part of that, we're going to make it
available to trusted testers via the
Gemini API to get their feedback before
making it widely available. Gemini is
already the best multimodal foundation
model, but we're working hard to extend
it to become what we call a world model.
This is our ultimate vision for the
Gemini app to transform it into a
universal AI assistant. This starts with
the capabilities we first explored last
year in Project Astra, such as video
understanding, screen sharing and
memory. For example, we've upgraded
voice output to be more natural with
native audio. We've improved memory and
added computer control. Let's take a
look. I think I stripped this screw. Can
you go on YouTube and find a video for
how to fix that? Of course. I'm opening
YouTube now.
This looks like a good video. It seems
like I need a spare tension screw. Can
you call the nearest bike shop and see
what they have in stock? Yep. Calling
them now. I'll get back to you with what
they have in stock. Hey, uh, any updates
on that call? Yep. I just got off of the
bike shop. They confirmed they have your
tension screw in stock. We've built
Alpha Proof that can solve mass Olympia
problems at the silver medal level.
co-scientist that can collaborate with
researchers, helping them develop and
test novel hypotheses. And we've just
released Alpha Evolve, which can
discover new scientific knowledge and
speed up AI training
itself. In the life sciences, we've
built Amy, a research system that could
help clinicians with medical
diagnosis. Alphold 3, which can predict
the structure and interactions of all of
life's molecules. and isomorphic labs
which builds on our alpha fold work to
revolutionize the drug disro drug
discovery process with AI and will one
day help to solve many global
diseases. As people use AI overviews, we
see they are happier with their results
and they search more often. For those
who want an end toend AI search
experience, we are introducing an allnew
AI mode. It's a total reimagining of
search. With more advanced reasoning,
you can ask AI mode longer and more
complex queries. In fact, users have
been asking much longer queries, two to
three times the length of traditional
searches. And I'm excited to share that
AI mode is coming to everyone in the US
starting today. Soon, AI mode will be
able to make your responses even more
helpful with personalized suggestions
based on your past
searches. You can also opt in to connect
other Google apps starting with Gmail.
Now, this is always under your control,
and you can choose to connect or
disconnect at any
time. Personal context is coming to AI
mode this summer. You already come to
search today to really unpack a topic,
but this brings it to a much deeper
level. So much so that we're calling
this deep search. It reasons across all
those disparate pieces of information to
create an expert level fully cited
report in just minutes. So I'll ask,
show the batting average and on base
percentage for this season and last for
notable players who currently use a
torpedo bat. I get this helpful
response, including this easy to read
table. I can follow up and ask, "How
many home runs have these players hit
this season?" Search figured out that
the best way to present this information
is a graph and it created it. It's like
having my very own sports analyst right
in
search. Complex analysis and data
visualization is coming this summer for
sports and financial questions. So, I'm
excited to share that we're bringing
Project Mariner's agentic capabilities
into AI mode. I'll say find two
affordable tickets for this Saturday's
Reds game in the lower level. Search
kicks off a query fan out looking across
several sites to analyze hundreds of
potential ticket options. Search helps
me skip a bunch of steps linking me
right to finish checking out. We're
taking the next big leap in
multimodality by bringing Project
Astra's live capabilities into AI mode.
We call this search live. It's like
hopping on a video call with search. We
are introducing a new try on feature
that will help you virtually try on
clothes. I really like this blue one. I
click on this button to try it on. It
asks me to upload a picture which takes
me to my camera roll. I have many
pictures here. I'm going to pick one
that is full length and a clear view of
me. We built a custom image generation
model specifically trained for fashion.
Wow. And it's
back. The AI model is able to show how
this material will fold and stretch and
drape on people. And let's assume the
price is now
dropped. When that happens, I get a
notification just like this. And if I
want to buy, my checkout agent will add
the right size and color to my cart. I
can choose to review all my payment and
shipping information or just the let the
agent just buy it for me with just one
tap search securely buys it for me with
Google Pay. And of course, all of this
happen under my guidance. Our new visual
shopping and agentic checkout features
are rolling out in the coming months and
you can start trying on looks in labs
beginning today. We're launching five
things today. First, let's talk about
Gemini Live. Now, as Sundar mentioned,
Gemini Live now includes camera and
screen sharing, both of which are
incredible. All of it is rolling out
free of charge in the Gemini app on
Android and iOS today. And in the coming
weeks, you'll be able to connect Gemini
Live to some of your favorite apps like
Calendar, Maps, Keep, Tasks. So soon,
you can just point your camera and ask
it to add an invite to your calendar and
it'll be done. Starting today, Deep
Research will now let you upload your
own files to guide the research agent.
So, let's say you have this incredible
detailed report. How do you get all that
brilliance distilled down into something
digestible, engaging? This is where
Canvas comes in. Canvas will now let you
transform that report with one tap into
all kinds of new things like a dynamic
web page, an infographic, a helpful
quiz, even a custom podcast in 45
languages. But if you want to go
further, you can vibe all sorts of
amazing things in Canvas with as much
back and forth as you want. We're
introducing Gemini and Chrome.
The amazing part is that you can use
this and it understands the context of
the page that you're on automatically.
So if you have a question, it can be
answered. We're starting to roll out
Gemini and Chrome this week to Gemini
subscribers in the US. Starting today,
we're bringing our latest and most
capable image generation model into the
Gemini app. It's called Imagine 4. And
Imagine 4 is so much better at text and
typography. In the past, you might have
created something that looked good, but
adding words didn't always work just
right. So, check this out. Maybe I want
to create a poster for a music festival.
We'll make the Chrome Dino the big
headliner. Imagine 4 doesn't just get
the text and spelling right. It's
actually making creative choices like
using dinosaur bones in the font or
figuring out the spacing, the font size,
the layout that makes it look like this
great poster. It's 10 times faster than
our previous model, so you can iterate
through many ideas
quickly. Images are incredible, but
sometimes you need motion and sound.
Today, I'm excited to announce our new
state-of-the-art model, VO3.
V3 comes with native audio generation.
That means that V3 can generate sound
effects, background sounds, and
dialogue. Now you prompt it and your
characters can speak. Take a listen.
They left behind a a ball today. It
bounced higher than I can jump.
What manner of magic is that?
Pretty cool, right? Vio added not just
the sounds of the forest, but also the
dialogue. This ocean, it's a force, a
wild, untamed might, and she commands
your awe with every breaking light.
Starting today, Gemini live capabilities
are free and rolling out across Android
and iOS. We recently launched LIA 2,
which can generate highfidelity music
and professional-grade audio. The music
is melodious with vocals in solos and
choirs. As you hear, it makes expressive
and rich music.
[Music]
LIA 2 is available today for
enterprises, YouTube creators, and
musicians. Right now, it's not easy for
people or organizations to detect AI
generated images. Two years ago, we
pioneered Synth ID, which embeds
invisible watermarks into generated
media. Our new synth ID detector can
identify if an image, audio track, text,
or video has synth ID in it, whether
it's in the whole piece or even just a
part. We're starting to roll this out to
early testers today. We teamed up with
visionary director Darren Areronowski
and his new storytelling venture,
Primordial Soup. Together, we are
putting the world's best video
generation model into the hands of top
filmmakers. The first of the
partnership's three short films is
director Eliza Mcnitz and Cesterra. We
filmed really emotional performances but
then generated video we could never
capture
otherwise. I want the baby to be holding
the mother's finger. Just the bliss of
the two of them.
Yeah. for every creature that came
before
you, from every star that died so that
you could begin. So when you're making a
video, it will use ingredients you give
it, characters, scenes, or styles, and
keep them consistent. Or you can direct
video, giving it precise camera
instructions, and have it shoot along a
specific path. We've been building a new
AI film making tool for creatives. We're
calling it Flow and it's launching
today. Let's drop into a project I'm
working on. Our hero, the grandpa, is
building a flying car with help from a
feathered friend. These are my
ingredients, the old man and his car. We
make it easy to upload your own images
into the tool, or you can generate them
on the fly using Imagine, which is built
right in. If I want to capture the next
shot of the scene, I can just hit the
plus icon to create the next shot. I can
describe what I want to happen next,
like adding a 10-ft tall chicken in the
back seat, and Flow will do the rest.
The character consistency, the scene
consistency, it just works. And if
something isn't, oh, quite right, no
problem. You can just go back in like
any other video tool and trim it up if
it's not working for you. But flow works
in the other direction as well. It lets
you extend a clip, too. So, I can get
the perfect ending that I've been
working towards. Once I've got all the
clips I need, I can download the files.
I can bring them into my favorite
editing software, add some music from
LIA, and now the old man finally has his
flying car.
[Music]
[Applause]
So, I'm excited to share that we're
upgrading and two AI subscription plans
today. We will have Google AI Pro and
the all-new Google AI Ultra.
With the pro plan, which is going to be
available globally, you'll get a full
suite of AI products with higher rate
limits and special features compared to
the free version. Then there's the Ultra
plan. The plan comes with the highest
rate limits, the earliest access to new
features and products from across
Google. It's available in the US today
and we'll be rolling it out globally
soon.
So, if you're an Ultra subscriber,
you'll get huge rate limits and access
to that 2.5 Pro deep think mode in the
Gemini app when it's ready. You'll get
access to Flow with VO3 available today.
And it also comes with YouTube Premium
and a massive amount of storage. In the
coming months, we're bringing Gemini to
your watch, your car's dashboard, even
your TV. But what about emerging form
factors that could let you experience an
AI assistant in new ways? That's exactly
why we're building Android
XR. From headsets to glasses and
everything in between. We believe
there's not a one-sizefits-all for XR,
and you'll use different devices
throughout your day. For example, for
watching movies, playing games, or
getting work done, you'll want an
immersive
headset. But when you're on the go,
you'll want lightweight glasses that can
give you timely information without
reaching for your phone. We built
Android XR together as one team with
Samsung and optimized it for Snapdragon
with Qualcomm. Let's start with Gemini
on headsets. This is Samsung's Project
Muhan, the first Android XR device.
Muhan gives you an infinite screen to
explore your apps by with Gemini by your
side. With Google Maps in XR, you can
teleport anywhere in the world simply by
asking Gemini to take you there. You can
talk with your AI assistant about
anything you see and have it pull up
videos and websites about what you're
exploring. Imagine watching them play in
the MLB app as if you were right there
in the stadium while chatting with
Gemini about player and game
stats. Samsung's Project Muhan will be
available for purchase later this year.
Let's turn our attention to glasses.
Glasses with Android XR are lightweight
and designed for all day wear, even
though they're packed with
technology. A camera and microphones
give Gemini the ability to see and hear
the world. Speakers let you listen to
the AI, play music, or take calls. And
an optional inlens display privately
shows you helpful information just when
you need it. These glasses work with
your phone, giving you access to your
apps while keeping your hands free. All
this makes glasses a natural form factor
for AI. Let's see how they work in the
most hectic environment possible right
now. Backstage at IO.
Hey everyone. Right now you should be
seeing exactly what I'm seeing through
the lens of my Android XR glasses. Like
my delicious coffee over here and that
text from Sham that just came in. Let's
see what he
said. All right, it's definitely
showtime. So, I'm going to launch Gemini
and get us
going. Send Shurama a text that I'm
getting started and silence my
notifications, please.
Okay, I've sent that message to him and
muted all your notifications.
Perfect.
Oh, hey Misha. Hey, Jer. I see the
lights on on your glasses, so I think
it's safe to say that we're live right
now. Yes, we're officially on with the
IO crew. Hey, everybody. It is pretty
great to see IO from this angle. Nisha,
you promised me I could get my own pair
of Android XR glasses if I helped out
back here. So, uh, what do you say? Of
course. Let's get coffee after this and
I'll bring you those glasses. Awesome.
We'll see you then. Good luck. Thank
you. As you all can see, there's a ton
going on backstage. And is that pro
basketball player Giannis wearing our
glasses? I love them. It stretches out
both of my hands for double high fives.
Nice. Let me keep showing you guys what
these glasses can do. I've been curious
about this photo wall all day. Like,
what band is this? And how are they
connected to this
place? Shoreline Amphitheater, which are
often seen as homecoming shows for the
band. Gemini, what was the name of the
coffee shop on the cup I had earlier?
H. That might have been Bloomsgiving.
From what I can tell, it's a vibrant
coffee shop on Castro Street. Great
memory. Can you show me the photos of
that cafe? I want to check out the
vibes.
Definitely. Do these photos from maps
help? Oh, I know that spot. It's a
flower shop as well as a coffee shop,
but it is downtown. H Okay, Gemini, show
me what it would take to walk here.
getting those directions now. It'll take
you about an hour.
Okay, I can get some steps in. And these
heads up directions and a full 3D map
should make it super
easy. Go ahead and send deer an invite
for that cafe and get coffee at 3 p.m.
today.
I'll send out that invite now. Enjoy the
coffee. As you saw, Gemini helped Nisha
search what she sees, remember details
like the coffee t coffee coffee cup,
book an event, even navigate, all
without taking her phone out of her
pocket. I'm even wearing the glasses
right now, too. They're my They're my
personal teleprompter, and I have
prescription lenses so I can see you
all. Okay, Nisha, this is a big moment
for glasses. Let's capture it. Yes. Get
ready for a quick photo everyone and
let's bring out our star.
[Applause]
All right, Gemini. Janice,
take a photo for me.
All right, Gemini, take a photo for me
and add it to my favorites.
That looks
amazing. Cinder showed what's possible
with live chat translation earlier.
Let's see what that's like on glasses.
This is a very risky demo, but we're
going to give it a
shot. Nisha and I are going to speak to
each other in our mother tongues.
Nisha's going to speak Hindi. I'm going
to speak FYI. very poorly. And you'll
see the feed from both of our glasses
back here. And so you can all follow
along, we'll show an English translation
in real time. Okay, let's give it a
shot. Fingers crossed.
Huh? Bill.
far
man. See, we said it's a risky
demo.
Let's We're taking our partnership with
Samsung to the next level by extending
Android XR beyond headsets to glasses.
Our glasses prototypes are already being
used by trusted testers and you'll be
able to start developing for glasses
later this year. Gentle Monster and
Warby Parker will be the first eyeear
partners to build glasses with Android
XR. Today you've heard a lot about ELOS
scores benchmarks and state-of-the-art
performance, but I know there's one
metric you've all been waiting for, our
AI counter. So, let's take a look at one
last
leaderboard. Looks like uh I guess we
have a new entrant. Gemini takes the
lead coming in at
95. On a more serious note, here's
everything we've announced today. From
new launches and product expansions to
glimmers of what's to come, the
opportunity with AI is truly as big as
it gets. and I can't wait to see what
amazing things we'll build together
next. Thank you.